# GNU Mailman 2.1.18 on AWS EC2

This project describes the process of installing GNU Mailman 2.18 on an Amazon AWS EC2 instance. Currently the default package available in Amazon Linux is version 2.1.15. Version 2.1.18 of GNU Mailman included a fix for an issue caused by Yahoo's decision to bounce email not conforming to the DMARC standard. 

### References
* https://blog.tigertech.net/posts/mailman-updated-fixes-dmarc/
* http://www.crescendo.net/content/tech/2014/07/updating-mailman-on-centos-5-due-to-dmarc/
* https://launchpad.net/mailman/+milestone/2.1.15
* https://launchpad.net/mailman/+milestone/2.1.18
* http://www.ietf.org/mail-archive/web/ietf/current/msg87153.html
* http://wiki.list.org/DOC/What%20can%20I%20do%20about%20members%20being%20unsubscribed%20by%20bounces%20of%20Yahoo%20user's%20posts%20for%20DMARC%20policy%20reasons%3F
* http://www.spamresource.com/2014/04/up-in-arms-about-yahoos-dmarc-policy.html
* http://wiki.list.org/DEV/DMARC
* http://stallion-theme.co.uk/how-to-upgrade-mailman-mailing-list-tutorial/
* http://yum.baseurl.org/wiki/YumCommands
* http://www.gnu.org/software/tar/manual/tar.html
* http://wiki.list.org/DOC/Understanding%20group%20mismatch%20errors%20-%20how%20mailman%20implements%20security​
* https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-US/Red_Hat_Enterprise_Linux/6/html/Deployment_Guide/sec-Removing.html
* http://www.gnu.org/software/mailman/mailman-admin/node11.html

### Summary
* Connect to the EC2 instance
* Archive Mailman data files
* Download the new Mailman
* Remove the old Mailman
* Install the new Mailman
* Configure the new Mailman
* Start the new Mailman
* Test and confirm

### Details
##### Connect to your EC2 instance
    ssh -i [keyfile].pem ec2-user@[somedomain.whatever]
##### Switch to super user
    sudo su
##### Check the mailman version
    /usr/lib/mailman/bin/version ​
##### Check the available versions of mailman with yum
    yum list available | grep mailman
##### Confirm the installed version of mailman with yum
    yum list installed | grep mailman
##### Download dnspython
    cd ~
    ls
    wget --no-check-certificate https://pypi.python.org/packages/source/d/dnspython/dnspython-1.11.1.zip
    ls -la
    Unzip dnspython
    unzip dnspython-1.11.1.zip
    ls
##### Install dnspython
    cd dnspython-1.11.1
    python setup.py install
##### Download GNU Mailman 2.1.18
    cd ~
    wget http://ftp.gnu.org/gnu/mailman/mailman-2.1.18.tgz
##### Recursively check the contents of /var/lib/mailman and keep a copy of the results
    ls -alR /var/lib/mailman/
    ls -alR /var/lib/mailman/ > ~/mailman.lib.[yyyy-mm-dd].txt
##### Archive the /var/lib/mailman directory. This is the data directory, where all of the mailing definitions and archive messages are kept. This is what you will need to restore, if something goes wrong. If the upgrade proceeds as planned, you won't have to touch these files. 
    tar cvf ~/var-lib-mailman.[yyyy-mm-dd].tar /var/lib/mailman
##### Archive the Postfix virtual file
    tar cvf ~/etc-postfix-virtual.[yyyy-mm-dd].tar /etc/postfix/virtual
##### Archive the aliases file
    tar cvf ~/etc-aliases.[yyyy-mm-dd].tar /etc/aliases
##### Archive the /etc/mailman directory
    tar cvf ~/etc-mailman.[yyyy-mm-dd].tar /etc/mailman/
##### Archive the /usr/lib/mailman directory
    tar cvf ~/usr-lib-mailman.[yyyy-mm-dd].tar /usr/lib/mailman/
##### Archive the httpd mailman.conf file
    tar cvf ~/etc-httpd-conf.d-mailman.conf.[yyyy-mm-dd].tar /etc/httpd/conf.d/mailman.conf ​
##### Check the user id and group ids of mailman and apache
    cat /etc/passwd | grep mailman
    cat /etc/passwd | grep apache
    cat /etc/group | grep mailman
    cat /etc/group | grep apache
##### Stop Postfix
    /etc/init.d/postfix status
    /etc/init.d/postfix stop
    /etc/init.d/postfix status
##### Stop GNU Mailman
    /etc/init.d/mailman status
    /etc/init.d/postfix stop
    /etc/init.d/postfix status
##### Remove GNU Mailman
    yum remove mailman
##### Check the response from yum for messages like this
```
warning: /usr/lib/mailman/cron/crontab.in saved as /usr/lib/mailman/cron/crontab.in.rpmsave

warning: /usr/lib/mailman/Mailman/mm_cfg.py saved as /usr/lib/mailman/Mailman/mm_cfg.py.rpmsave

warning: /etc/httpd/conf.d/mailman.conf saved as /etc/httpd/conf.d/mailman.conf.rpmsave
```
##### Read the rpm save files, if any
    cat /usr/lib/mailman/cron/crontab.in.rpmsave
    cat /usr/lib/mailman/Mailman/mm_cfg.py.rpmsave
    cat /etc/httpd/conf.d/mailman.conf.rpmsave
##### Extract the new version of GNU Mailman
    cd ~
    tar xzf mailman-2.1.18.tgz
##### Make sure the set-gid bit is set for directory: /usr/lib/mailman
    cd /usr/lib/mailman/
    ls -la .
    chgrp mailman .
    ls -la . |grep s
    chmod a+rx,g+ws . 
    ls -la . |grep s
    ls -la .
##### Configure the Mailman installation. Set the installation directory to /usr/lib/mailman. IMPORTANT: Set the Var directory to /var/lib/mailman. Set the group id of the mail wrapper to mailman. Set the group id of the web server wrapper to apache. 
    cd ~/mailman-2.1.18
    ./configure --prefix=/usr/lib/mailman/ --with-var-prefix=/var/lib/mailman --with-mail-gid=mailman --with-cgi-gid=apache 
##### Install GNU Mailman
    make
    make install
##### Check the GNU Mailman version
    /usr/lib/mailman/bin/version 
##### Read the Mailman aliases file. See if the mailing lists which had been defined are still listed.
    cat /etc/mailman/aliases
##### Check the /var/lib/mailman/ directory to make sure the mailing list data are still there
    ls -alR /var/lib/mailman/
##### Make sure that the owner of the aliases and aliases.db file is mailman, that the group owner for those files is mailman, or whatever user and group you used in the configure command, and that both files are group writable.
    ls -la /etc/mailman/aliases*
    chown mailman:mailman /etc/mailman/aliases*
    ls -la /etc/mailman/aliases*
    chmod g+w /etc/mailman/aliases*
    ls -la /etc/mailman/aliases*
##### Run the check permissions script, and run it again with the -f flag until all of the problems are fixed
    /usr/lib/mailman/bin/check_perms > ~/checked_perms.[yyyy-mm-dd].txt
    /usr/lib/mailman/bin/check_perms
    /usr/lib/mailman/bin/check_perms -f
    /usr/lib/mailman/bin/check_perms -f
##### Review the Defaults file
    less  /usr/lib/mailman/Mailman/Defaults.py
##### Review the sitelist config template. 
    more /etc/mailman/sitelist.cfg 
##### ​Set the Mailman site master password
    /usr/lib/mailman/bin/mmsitepass [ --- somepassword --- ]
##### Restore the rpmsave copy of the ​mm_cfg.py file
    cp /usr/lib/mailman/Mailman/mm_cfg.py /usr/lib/mailman/Mailman/mm_cfg.py.[yyyy-mm-dd]
    cp /usr/lib/mailman/Mailman/mm_cfg.py.rpmsave /usr/lib/mailman/Mailman/mm_cfg.py
##### Read the mm_cfg.py file
    cat /usr/lib/mailman/Mailman/mm_cfg.py
##### Make sure these values are set. Don't forget the single quotes!
    DEFAULT_URL_HOST = fqdn
    DEFAULT_EMAIL_HOST = '[somedomain.whatever]'
    MTA = 'Postfix'
##### Check the default values for Postfix alias and command
    grep POSTFIX_ALIAS_CMD /usr/lib/mailman/Mailman/Defaults.py
    grep POSTFIX_MAP_CMD /usr/lib/mailman/Mailman/Defaults.py
##### Read the mailman.conf file in the Apache config directory
    less /etc/httpd/conf.d/mailman.conf
##### If the mailman.conf file is not there, restore the rpmsave copy
    cp /etc/httpd/conf.d/mailman.conf.rpmsave /etc/httpd/conf.d/mailman.conf
##### Make sure this line is un-commented
    RedirectMatch ^/mailman[/]*$ /mailman/listinfo
##### Make sure the Apache config file has an entry like this for Mailman
```xml
ScriptAlias /mailman/ /usr/lib/mailman/cgi-bin/
<Directory /usr/lib/mailman/cgi-bin/>
    AllowOverride None
    Options ExecCGI
    Order allow,deny
    Allow from all
</Directory>

Alias /pipermail/ /var/lib/mailman/archives/public/
<Directory /var/lib/mailman/archives/public>
    Options MultiViews FollowSymLinks
    AllowOverride None
    Order allow,deny
    Allow from all
    AddDefaultCharset Off
</Directory>
```
##### Restart Apache
    /etc/init.d/httpd status
    /etc/init.d/httpd restart
##### ​Read the Mailman init script
    cat /etc/init.d/mailman
##### Copy the Mailman init script to /etc/init.d/
    cp /usr/lib/mailman/scripts/mailman /etc/init.d/mailman
##### Edit the master copy of crontab.in
    nano /usr/lib/mailman/cron/crontab.in
##### Comment out this line 
    #0,5,10,15,20,25,30,35,40,45,50,55 * * * * mailman /usr/lib/mailman/cron/gate_news
##### Copy the crontab.in file to /etc/cron.d/mailman
    cp /usr/lib/mailman/cron/crontab.in /etc/cron.d/mailman
##### Make sure the the mailman user _does not_ have a crontab
    crontab -u mailman -l
    ls -la /var/spool/cron/
##### ​Tell Mailman to start every time you reboot your system
    chkconfig --add mailman
##### Start Mailman
    /etc/init.d/mailman start
* Open a web browser, and log into the admin page of a test list.
* Subscribe a Yahoo email address to the test list and send an email message to the test list from a Gmail account. 
* Reply from the Yahoo account to the message sent from the Gmail account. 
* Check the Gmail account for the reply from the Yahoo account.
* If the Gmail account does not get the message from the Yahoo account, the problem is confirmed. 
* Check the mail log to see what happened when you sent the message from Yahoo and from Gmail. 
```
cat /var/log/maillog
```
##### To fix the problem...

* Open a web browser, and log into the admin page of a test list.
* For the option of “from_is_list” select “Munge From.” 
* Send a test message to the list from a Gmail account. 
* Reply from the Yahoo account to the message sent from the Gmail account. 
* Check the Gmail account for the reply from the Yahoo account.
* ​If the Gmail account gets the message from the Yahoo account, the problem is fixed. 
